Step 0. Start Here And that way, when you go to the time management video, Hey guys, it's Ali and welcome to ADHD, entrepreneurs. I am so thrilled to have you here. We're going to help you double your productivity in under two hours, whether it's your life, and you get to keep this amazing community with you whether it's your life. Need to meet some cool people. So what I want to do really quick is just walk you through the program, what to expect, how it's structured, how to your results as fast as possible. And then I'm going to go and show the community our team, basically some next steps. So this is double your productivity. If you click on it, we're here, you'll see it that this is the video that you're watching right now. This track. Basically, go ahead and start with this one. First, make sure you believe the things that are draining your energy. Then add the product to the system that is going to help you determine what you want. Prioritization helps figure out what to work on next time. Management helps us schedule and actually stick to it. And execution helps you sit down and do the work using really fancy, cool stuff you're gonna see inside. Now I want to make it clear that even though you may be thinking, Oh, I only struggle with time management, it really does help to go through the course linearly, like it does help a lot, first subtract and then get clear. Even if you think you know what you want, it's still helpful to watch this clarity transition video, and that way, when you go to the time management video, we're referencing some concepts here that you're not gonna miss. So again, these videos are very short. It's like six minutes long. Just go ahead and watch them. You can go ahead and do it in one sitting in a single day. Entire content is less like than an hour and 30 minutes. Or if you want, you can do like, 10 minutes at a time, continuous at five up to you once you go ahead and finish the program, then I have an amazing surprise to you, which is all these bonus videos on productivity and even on entrepreneurship. So in addition to my obsession with ADHD and productivity and want to get productive as possible. I'm also obviously an entrepreneur, a part time entrepreneur, and I love talking about business, thinking about business, scam businesses. I scaled my own business to $50,000 per month, basically under a year from the time I started it. So I love teaching people about business concepts as well how you make channels. There's some cool stuff in there as well. Now, once you're inside the community, go ahead and make a post introducing yourself, and you can say either like introduction or greetings from new member. If you want to be even fancier and attract better people, say like new member hoping to gain XYZ, or like new members struggling with XYZ. And what that's going to do is, since we have so many posts in here, people, is going to grab the eyes of the people who either struggle with the same thing you do, or are interested in the same thing you are, you're going to be a lot more likely to attract people who are following your network. And then finally, I want to introduce you to our team. So there's me, Ali, who's person who built this productivity system. We also have Adam and Greg, who manage our coaching program and are more involved with the enrollment there, Tyler and Thomas or committee mentors, and who's our institution accountability coach. Together for your help. Once you go ahead and get this program started and you finish and you're awesome and you're getting results, feel free to go ahead and check out our follow up program become a productivity initiative where this one is more on external systems, like your environment, calendars, room, things like that, things that are outside of your brain that you can control to build your productivity based in minor tweaks. If you're an entrepreneur who's serious and want to get to the next level and you want to start building systems inside your brain on how to think, how many decisions, how to have the right mindset, right beliefs, basically internal systems around awareness, mindset, cognition. This thing is really, really bad. It's based on concepts I've learned that NASA and SpaceX from shadow and Elon Musk, I work in NASA outcomes in South Sudan. Prior to my job earlier so anyway, we're here to make sure that you have a great time. We're here to make you ask about this possible this is age entrepreneur is number one group for ADHD customers for entrepreneurs trying to be as good as possible while still having great time so go ahead and I'll talk to a minute. I felt acts as a filter, a lens for what I want to achieve and what I want not want to achieve. Here I take it a step further by making sure that I define what the systems are going to be for that. So, for example, in order to achieve two silver plates, I schedule post order to schedule for my business, I need to make sure I'm doing the right tasks and stuff in order to all these things look healthy, have a fit body, have confidence or not, I schedule groceries, track, Federation. This basically right here, my goal and system. One liner is my lens for every single decision that I make. I know sounds crazy, but like think of how focused I am. Think of a focus someone like Venus, where literally a lot of thoughts that come to my mind, a lot of decisions, Oh, should I do this? Should I do that? How nice is it that I have this lens that tells me immediately, what am I? What's my goal? What am I trying to do? And it immediately tells me, Oh, this is, actually, this is, oh, this is how I should be. Focused on energy. It becomes very easy to say, yes, known to things, while most people spend a lot of time trying to figure out if they should say yes or no, something I am crystal clear on, is this thing going to help me get the life I want, or no, and obviously, very time, very often I am open. There is room for serendipity. There is open for wandering, not saying, be very rigid with this. I'm saying if at least 80% of the time you use this goal as like, your lens for making those decisions. And then once you have the goal, then you can find a system as, like, I don't know, me with personal trainer, show up to work on time, and, I don't know, allocate three hours per day to business, something like that. Obviously, system setting is very different from goal setting. We're going to talk about that a bit later. But yeah, so This video covers the core concept of the system, which is getting crystal clear on the goal that you want, getting crystal clear on the roadmap that you have, at least for right now, and then coming up with a one liner that makes your goal the lens through which you're focused your day to day thoughts. Now, once you have this first part of the system build, then we can go ahead and figure out how you actually figure out what to work on right now, and this word of prioritization system comes in and I will see you over the slide. Focus: Lens Personal Life Full-Time Job Business Project 3 Goal Roadmap Bottleneck First Steps (to solve bottleneck) Clarity Action Items 3-Lens System, Part 1 – Lens 1 and 2. • Make a copy of the 3-Lens system document. The 1st lens: • Identify your big picture goals and separate them into ideally 2 to maximum 4 categories. • Fill in the goal categories into the 1st lens of the document. Use one column for one goal. The 2nd lens: • Think of a roadmap towards your goal. Make a sequence of smaller steps that lead to fulfilling the bigger goal. • Bookmark the 3-Lens System so you can see it daily or weekly Here we're going to talk about prioritization, which is, how do you prioritize your time and energy to figure out what tasks you should be working on right now, the previous video, we talked about the first two lenses, defining the goal and setting a roadmap for achieving it. Let's talk about the third lens, which is identifying the first steps you have to take. Now, the reason I like to call it first steps, because, especially if you're someone who has ADHD, it just reduces overwhelm. You think that, okay, once I define the roadmap, all I got to do is I take the first step in that roadmap. I have built a ladder, and I can only focus on the first step. Focus only on the first step. You kill all the overwhelm, and you just get that first step done. You move on to the next one, the next one and the next one, and the next thing knows, you've achieved the goal. And I learned this from mountain climbing climbers. If you watch any documentary on people who climb massive mountains, like always on Everest, or any of these like massive mountains, the one mindset they all have in common is they always say, if you just constantly keep looking only at the top of the mountain, you're going to be so overwhelmed that you're gonna be like, Oh my god, like not gonna make any progress, right? If you focus only on the first step and the next step and the next step, the next thing, though, is you look back and you made so much progress, and you spend so much time in motion, while most other people who are only like looking at the top and they're intimidated, they just stand still and they're still parallels. So it's very important that you develop this philosophy of the first step, and that's why we define the roadmap, right? But now the question is, how do you even identify what the first step is right, and how you use that first step as a lens to which figuring out what action right? Because your first step really is the action. That's why there's a single arrow. Is that we've gotten so close. We went from a big goal to roadmap to identify the first step they should work on, and for that, a very simple system for identifying what is the first step I should work on. And this is what I call my very simple bottleneck prioritization technique. And it's basically very simple. It's a four step process that I ask myself, first, what do I want? It's basically the goal and the roadmap. Now, then I ask, What's stopping me, right? Like, suppose I define a roadmap, What's stopping me from taking that first step, right? So again, in the previous example, let's say, in the business, like I have said something like, identify with one issue based on whatever you ask yourself, Okay? Like, why? Why have I not done that? What stops me from doing that? Right? And you get crystal clear on the thing that stopped what is the obstacle? What is the hurdle? Because once you remove the hurdle, it's very easy to go and achieve that first step. Right? They ask, What do I want? What's stopping me? And then once you identify the thing that's stopping you, let's say it's lack of expertise, lack of knowledge for us, analysis, paralysis. I don't have the right ring light. I don't have the right microphone to recover whatever it is that you identify that stops from achieving the goal, you go and figure out how to solve it. You identify how to solve that bottleneck, and once you figure out how to solve that bottleneck, you either do it now or schedule it. We're going to talk a little bit more about this in the next video about time management, but for now, let's focus just on these two steps. What is stopping me and how do I solve it? This is also very, very important, because when you start thinking of your actions and the little steps that you have to say as just problem result, when you think of the reason why you have to achieve it all as always, just one small problem. So that completely reframes when you think about life in general, because life just becomes a fun game. So Right? Not just constantly. Today, you buy what you buy? Oh, my God. So it becomes a simple, oh, I don't know how to do this thing. My problem is that I think knowledge right, versus one area, how to solve the problem and then still acquire that just kills all that, like crappy background. So far, this is a very simple, crystal clear stop me, and how do I actually absorb that system? Which is right? Curiosity is very often it's very important, if you're struggling to figure out what steps to take, once you have the roadmap, figure out the first steps are simply, let's say that, like over here, let's say a certain amount of my niches based on what I'm interested in and I'm curious about, right? And I can say, Okay, well, the reason what's happening. So what's happening is that, okay, I don't want to say lack awareness of strengths or what we do. Some of the words is like, I don't know what I am curious about, right? And then it becomes very easy to figure out what you should focus on as a first step, because obviously you want to get this step done, and there's something that solves so then all we can do is identify the first step to solve this problem that's there is some that's very simple. Don't have to be crazy creative. I don't know what I'm curious about. I could do like, multiple things. Like, my first step would be like, ask people around me what they think I am curious about, curious about, right? Let's say a second step encourages six months. Let's say use a maximum number three, ask people around me what I think I'm curious about. I'll make a list of all my strengths and make a list of all my weaknesses, for example, to see things that I don't, don't think I'm interested in. Let's say we only focus on one thing. Look at how powerful this is. We have gone from what is my goal, what am I trying to achieve? What is my current plan of getting there, to what should I be working on right now? And you identify that there's a hurdle, and now we're working to solve that hurdle. So this action, taking this action, is what will single handedly help you to your goal. You have to laser focus through all these lessons on what it is actually doing right now. Now, once you solve this thing, that's why, let's say you do that, and you figure out what your niche is, then there's no longer the wallet, and you just cross this thing off of this, and it's no longer it's done. Now you're like, Okay, do market research, data management. I don't know what market research is, or, let's say I don't know how to research, and let's say first step is, like, figure out how to do my research. Or let's say, for example, I'm going to figure and type my business idea there and see what people are doing, right? I just got with, like, some first step you want to try. You try it, and you see, you keep trying things until you solve that problem, right? Obviously, if I'm solving is a skill to develop, and the more you think of your life in terms of, okay, I should be working on it. Now, in order to focus, is the first step of solving the problem that stopped me from taking the first step of the roadmap, which, once I finished, will help me achieve the goal. Man, that is a very complete productivity system from start and from goal to roadmap. First step. But now, once you define what is the problem, what is the thing that stopped me? These will have a very lessons piece, which is how we actually sit down and watch that sit down for that we're gonna talk about financial, so I will see you. Focus: Lens Personal Life Full-Time Job Business Project 3 Goal Roadmap Bottleneck First Steps (to solve bottleneck) Prioritization Action Items 3-Lens System, Part 2 – Lens 3. • Think short term about your goals and write down the bottleneck. What is stopping you from your short term goal? Frame it as a problem to solve. • Write the bottleneck into the first row of lens 3. • Think about the things that you have to do to solve the bottleneck and formulate them as easy to do tasks. • Fill in the the tasks in the second row of lens 3. • Do the tasks directly or schedule them (see next lesson). Ali, in this video, I'm going to talk to you about time prioritization, also known as time management, basically, how should you be spending your time? And in the last few videos, we figured out, what do I want? It's basically covered. The clarity module. We started thinking in terms of bottleneck, asking, What's stopping me? What's the hurdle? What is the obstacle? And how to solve the bottleneck, how to remove the hurdle. That's basically our prioritization thinking framework. Now let's talk about time. And for time, I have a very, very simple framework. I call it an opt out management approach. Basically, once you identify what is the task you do, you tell yourself what's happening from PDF. Most people have an opt in approach, meaning like sometimes you have to opt out of doing tasks, because the test, because as long as I identify that something is clearly gonna help you to my goal is the first time I can say, what is what else is more important? I clearly just through the system explain myself. This is the most important thing right now. The way I decide that is like when I say, Look at my calendar. So I've heard an example right here is I use some recommended if you're not using a counter in general, I calendar in general, are you going to struggle a lot in life spare time? The way I use my calendar, as you can notice that color coding is actually very often confronted with my categories. So I have the green, the purple, the blue and the red, and the way these things are scheduled, purple, red is my YouTube channel. Blue is business meetings, things like that. So this, but the idea is that once I've identified what tasks I should take, I take a look at my calendar and say, Okay, do I realistically have enough time to do the task? And then my thought, and then I can, I'll give you a very simple live example. So let's say I have a I identify that just try my sleep better and order. So once I do that, I copied the task from here. I just highlight it, and I copy it, and then I go to my Google Calendar and my Google Calendar, and I have this little voice right here that's full tents, full tasks. And then I click add to my face it. And now I have this task over here. Let's face it right and now I have to make it similar. Do I have time to it right now? What's complete now? And I take a look, I estimate how long expectation I can take a look. Should I do it now? Right now? Because I have to drive to work in about exactly 10 minutes. 10 minutes. There's just no way. So now I'm opting out of the task. I'm like, Okay, I know this very high priority. I cannot do it right now. Why can I do it? And I have to schedule it. And guys, I cannot assess how. For instance, this is called an implementation intention without an intention, to implement what you have to do. And you tell yourself, I'm listening at this time and this place in this test you don't like without visualizing, do that. When the time comes to the desk, like the time will ever come, you'll keep progressing and keep getting distracted by outside things because you haven't scheduled, you haven't sent me intentions. Done a good thing. So for me, I made the thing go back to the algorithm. Do it on schedule. So what should I schedule? Okay, then I have this new ordering. Next order. I'm not gonna be at work till midnight tonight, so that's probably not gonna be the time. Something I can do anytime today. I probably won't be able to get this until tomorrow. Okay, now here's part about this. Is I've clearly identified this an important test. I prioritize this task. I've looked at my calendar and I figured out what we can do is now we're going to do it later. But I didn't just say I'll do it later. I scheduled one later. But here's the beauty is that this is not a professional system. Suppose later, but suppose I stayed informed, like what we do so suppose we buy one because I'm recording this, but I, I suppose I don't, I don't suppose something happens. No big deal. I'm just gonna drag this as into it. But the idea is that whenever I set an intention to say, I'm gonna do it this time and if something happens, what we've done here is that we have set an intent. Here is that we have set an intention that we sit down and do the same. And yes, there could be resistance. There could be other problems, execution, procrastination, identified what our goal is, to identify the first step. And now we have that time frames check out. Time Management Action Items Don’t delay. Do it now. Go back to the video if you forgot how to do something. :) • Install Google Tasks in your calendar • Use colors to create congruence between your 3-Lens System and your calendar. • Create a task in the 3rd lens of the 3-Lens System. • Ask “What is stopping me from doing it right now?” - If not doable right now, “opt out” and… • Copy the task, create a new Google Task and paste it into the title. • Schedule the task in your calendar for a time when you are confident that you will do it. Hey guys, it's Ali. And in this video, I want to talk to you about rapid execution frameworks that I picked up at SpaceX. In other words, how engineers and business operators at SpaceX get things done with extreme speed. I was inside SpaceX and their platform, factory and engineering unit about a year ago from the time recording this, I was interviewed there for a position before I chose to work at NASA. And let me tell you guys what I saw in there blew my mind so much because of how these guys get things done, and the rapid execution framework revolves around a concept called iteration. So very often people, let's say you want to start a business, or you want to do something, you'll spend, like a very long time researching and reading and watching content and doing all these things and whatnot. And the engineers at SpaceX would not do that. They would take a very different approach. They would literally start a business like from scratch with very basic, fundamental knowledge and built it with the expectation that it would fail. Figure out why it failed, iterate and so on. And this is something that they do in their rocket designs and their satellite designs and their business operations as well. And to give you a business example, let's say you are thinking about starting a YouTube channel, right? And many people want to start a YouTube channel, but delay it for a very, very long time. And a SpaceX approach would be to say, okay, the YouTube channel at first is going to suck. Is to literally, like, remove the expectation that I'm doing something for the first time, so it needs to be good. No, I'm doing something for the first time, so I expect it to suck, and I expect it to not be very good. And they would start it same day, like they would maybe watch a few YouTube videos on how to start a channel, watch a tutorial, make sure, like, nothing is too crazy, and just start at the same day and take that first step and build a first version, and then figure out why it's not growing, or figure out why videos are not uploading. One out. Basically, you build something with the intention of failure. It fails. You figure out why it fails. You learn, you change a variable, you iterate, and you try something new the next day, and then you do it again. You try something new the next day, and you do that again and again and again. And what's crazy about this iterative process is after two or three months, you have tested and failed so much that you've learned so much that you are like years ahead of everyone else. And again, it's because people will spend months researching things and trying to learn things, and people will delay taking that first step and getting started while the space execution frameworks teach. You know, just from day one, take an action, expect it to fail, so that you remove that emotional attachment to having a good outcome, figure out why it failed, learn from it and repeat and so on. And I'll tell you one quick story before I end this video on how I use this actually to get my job at NASA. So in order to get hired at NASA, I needed to write a proposal, a 15 page document explaining to NASA what value I'm going to bring and what projects am I going to work on, and why they should fund me. And I had three shots right. I could only really apply three times because I was applying for a mission that was going to take off in Antarctica, and I needed to get it right by at least by the latest the third time. And I had four months to write that first proposal. And initially I was paralyzed. I was like, man, like, I have three shots. I gotta, I gotta write this proposal is gonna it's gonna be good. It's gonna be good. And then I remember what I learned at SpaceX, which is, no, how about I get three shots? How about the first one? Doesn't have to be great. I submit something that's good enough. Learn from why it's going to get rejected, implement the feedback hardcore into the second version. Make the second version as soon as I can, based on the feedback in the first one. And if this gets rejected, then I will take my learning from one and two and make the third one as good as possible, and that's exactly what it is. So I submitted the first version. My first proposal was embarrassing. Was so bad, but I got so much feedback on it, on how to improve it. I spent the next four months rewriting, changing the concepts, improving and submitted the second version, and I'm so close to the second one, second one, I got a little bit more feedback, but this time I knew what I was doing, like I took the feedback from the second one, and I submitted a third time, and that third time was a home run. And I got into NASA, I got my job, and I did the exact same approach in my business. So I did. I started a consulting company to help business owners grow, grow their business. And again, I had to make ads. I had to the landing page. I had to do things I've never done any of that. And then I remembered the stuff I learned at SpaceX, which is, yeah, like, of course I'm going to suck at the ads at first the land page, instead of spending months trying to learn about ads by watching videos and reading books and listening to gurus on on things. Why do I just literally open my YouTube account and, like, literally put together an ad and it's and put, like, very little money at $20 and expect it to fail, and look at the metrics that I get, and I'm like, Okay, what's the CTR? What's it? And then I go and Google things, guys, I can't emphasize how powerful this is like when you learn through trying things and expecting them to fail and having curiosity about how you take that failure and converting it into learning and iterating. You get done in two months, what other people are doing in years, and it's no wonder Elon Musk is such a hyper productive person, because this is the approach you need to talk to SpaceX engineers. This is what the SpaceX engineers taught me, and this is what I'm here to teach you. So the key takeaway from here is, whenever you're thinking about starting something or doing something, one reason you'll procrastinate or put it off is you'll have that emotional attachment to always gotten you good enough, especially if you're more of a perfectionist type person, screw that. Say this first version I'm going to build is going to fail. I'm going to build this with the rule of failure, learn my failed, and then I will make the second version better, the third one better, and the fourth one better. Sounds like a lot of work, but it's really not, because once you get started and start improving, it's much easier to optimize something than start something from scratch. So just take that leap of faith and start something from scratch and then spend time iterating and optimizing, guys, it's aligan. I hope you found this video, and if you're like me, when I watch that video, I just feel so I feel so emotionally motivated to just go. Attack, my task. Attack, my goals, attack, life not be like clock anymore. That's basically what this story was all about. So I hope you resonate with that. Now, one last thing I want to mention is this concludes the Add Module, and it concludes the Add, subtract combination module. This has introduced the full ADHD system, full it explains to you my full productivity system. That's basically the external system of productivity. But there are also systems inside your brain, right? Like how you make decisions, your beliefs, your mindset, your field of failure, your fear of failure. So one thing I wanted to bring to your attention is that if you're someone who needs to go even faster, wants to see your goal at record time, I will put a link below, or a call like some type of link below that you can use, such that you can learn about our coaching program, where you can work with me directly and work with my team, and you can basically dive into deeper stuff, like your awareness, your mindset, cognition, having decisions, necessary protocols in life, failure, how to build systems to deal with failure, and just kind of system and systemize your life overall. That's basically a program that I have put together in which I just really hold your hand, make sure you achieve your goals, and record time if you want to learn more about that, click the resource below. Otherwise, keep enjoying the course and keep being engaged in the community. And again, thanks so much for being here. I really hope you're enjoying this content. I really hope joining this course and this module specifically, and I'll see you in the next one. We're going to talk about multiplying and dividing, probably actually dividing first. we're going to figure out how to break your life into different chunks and how to scale them so I'll see you in useful. Morning Protocol Hi guys, Ali, and in this video, I want to talk to you about your morning protocol, basically what you do from the moment you open your eyes, the first few minutes after you open your eyes, and before, I go ahead and talk about what's in here, basically a very simple protocol that I follow every morning. The Pink is my evening protocol. So we're going to ignore that for a second. We're all going to focus on what to do every morning. Obviously, you can come up with your own, but before I talk about this, before I talk about what you should do, I'm going to get away from this thing so we can focus. Let's talk about what you should not do. All right, very first thing when you wake up, you cannot touch this thing and start going on Instagram and start checking messages and start checking email, if you are just laying down in bed, and you open your eyes, and you grab this thing, and you start reacting to emails, social media, things that nature, especially if you're someone higher up on the ADHD spectrum, you are frying up your Brain, because what you're doing is you're inducing dopamine, especially if you're someone with ADHD, you're already very low on dopamine, right? It's already, it's already hard enough to motivate yourself to do certain things. And the very first action you do when you wake up, which sets the cadence for the day, is you grab your phone and you start checking it. You're already, like, 50% a lot less likely to take the right action on your business, on your job, on your on your exercise, and your family relationships, other things you need to do. What I do a cure is very, very simple, is I just take my phone and I make sure it's not next to me when I wake up, I put it all the way over there, just like my corner, doesn't it could be a drawer. It could be just put it somewhere where it is not within reach. As soon as you wake up and try your best to do that, because, again, if you wake up and you check your phone very first thing, it's not a workout. Now imagine, instead of waking up and checking your phone, first thing you wake up do, push ups, you stretch. Did you read the user manual, which I've discussed in the self image video. I do a very quick workout, and then I do like a quick cold shower, like on days where I do this, when I wake up and it takes, I don't know, 20 minutes. 25 minutes, I don't I don't necessarily need to do it right away. Maybe step one could be, I don't know, just kind of grab drink some water, wind down, do something. If you're gonna grab something like instead of instead of your phone, I'd rather you at least check your computer, then you're at least more likely going to be more code. But the idea is that picture two trajectories. One, where I wake up and I do these things. One, when I wake up and I just check Instagram, grab my phone and do all these things. How am I going to feel 10 minutes into the day, 15 minutes into the day, 30 minutes into the day, which trajectory do you think is going to make me feel really good, really confident? Make me a lot more likely to take action, make me a lot more likely to have the self image of someone who does take action and get things done. It's very, very very important. And again, it doesn't have to be complicated. Like, this is, like, this is something I do instantly. Like, I just get up, turn off my alarm, which, again, I don't have next to me, so I don't have the option to switch, but I just do the push ups to stretch. This takes like, 30 seconds. I drink some water, I read my user manual, which is basically the document I discussed Morning Protocol Action Items The morning protocol is there to increase the likelihood of you behaving in a way that makes you get more things done and achieve your goals faster. • Write down your new morning protocol 1. Make sure that the first 10-20 minutes of your day are spent on something productive/beneficial. 2. Prevent yourself from using your phone first thing in the morning. 3. Try to include things like the “User Manuel” from the course. Evening Protocol Hey guys, Sally, and in this video, I'm going to show you one of the craziest, but coolest, simplest, most life changing things you could ever do. In my case, I am pretty nutty and hard to core about it. For you, it can be something that's very simple, and this what I call evening protocol, is basically my evening routine. And if you don't have you've probably heard a lot about morning routines, but what most people don't know is that the morning begins the night before, because if you don't sit down and plan the next day properly, and you don't make that activity exciting in the morning, it's gonna suck. You're gonna wake up, you're gonna have no idea what you're doing. So the most important activity for me in annual day is evening routine. I call it evening protocols. Made the sound full of become an engineer. Also ADHD part in Europe is a bit childish. You need to do the exciting things every single night. This alarm right here, which, right now it's been just because it's so I can sit there, and then this alarm goes off 10pm every single night, and I have this board next to me that gives me a sequence of things to do each night. Again. For you, it could be just two things. Mine is pretty hardcore. Mine says very first thing, just put phone in the box. I have this lock box thing, which I know is pretty crazy for most people, but I basically put my phone in and it locks it visually until the next morning. So basically I make sure that I talk to everyone. I've talked to my parents, talk to my girlfriend. I still have my Apple watch, and I still have my laptop in case someone needs to reach out to me. But I know that the phone has tons of stimulation and dopamine and sources, and if you want to get to bed early, you can't have your phone next to you. There's just no way. So I'm pretty hardcore. I don't believe in discipline. I believe in systems. Instead of convincing myself that I'm gonna be a disciplined person, which will never happen because I'm pretty undisciplined and irresponsible. And that's the strength of the ADHD is that running mind that's giving you ideas all the time. I'd rather lean into that childish tendency and just say, Okay, I'm just gonna put my phone in that little box, and that way I literally just cannot access it until the very next morning. Obviously, this thing, if you has, like, a secret code or something, if or whatever emergency needs, access. You can have polls so you can answer and put on speaker and talk to someone. But that's the very first thing I do. So the alarm goes off. I just put my phone like, in your case, you don't need a lock box, like, like this. You don't like, it's only 20 bucks Amazon, but you don't need it. Literally, just put your phone in a drawer or put it in another room. The idea is that put your phone somewhere where you're not gonna sleep because it's very stimulating. It's very interesting, or ADHD brain is very doping, hungry. Just gonna want to start scrolling, start clicking, and then next thing you notice, you're up till 4am watching Instagram reels, and you have a plan the next morning. So once I do that right here, the next thing it says teeth. So I literally just go brush my teeth and nose. So I just put on one of these nose strips. These things help me sleep at night. He watched an entrepreneur called Alex coronavisi. He's popularized this thing. I knew about it way before, because I have a hard time breathing through my nose. But when I put these things on and breathe better through my nose, my brother Tommy, and then after that, it says, clean room. So the next thing I do is I just, like, clean my room. So as you can see, my room is always spotless at night. That's another thing about ADHD, just having a running mind. Is if your environment is cluttered, your brain is mini cluttered. So every single night, it takes me literally, like, one minute, like, sometimes 30 seconds, sometimes two minutes, the room is messy. I just go put stuff back. I just clean the bed. I clean the desk for all the notes, like, in this case, all the notes in here are put in one place. Everything's ready to go. Guys, these things are very simple, but they make such a big difference, such a difference. But it takes, like, 30 seconds, or if you build that habit, then Evening Protocol Action Items: • Create your own Evening Protocol and keep it in a place where you will always see it when needed. Things to include in your Evening Protocol: • Alarm • Choose a place for your phone to be at while you sleep (e.g. Phone Lock Box/ far away from bed). • Clean your environment and tidy your desk. Make sure that everything is tidy when you wake up. • Gather all your notes (from block, note taking apps etc.) in one place. • WRS - Write, rank, schedule. Plan ahead your tasks for the next day like explained in the Time Management lesson (2.3). • Chose a short wind down ritual. (E.g. meditation, piano, reading) Begin tonight by scheduling your first tasks for tomorrow! Hey guys, it's a lady again. And in this great video, I just want to show you very, very simple, quick lesson on some very easy tweaks you can do in your life to dramatically improve your health, improve your sleep, improve your diet, improve your productivity and your focus. Now I'm not going to dive into deep on any of these things again. You're busy. I'm busy. This is not a course on health. It's not a course on sleep. Is basically a system on helping you get things done, but these are small, minor tweaks you can start doing today that can make you productive in the long term. So let's just go ahead and dive into it. So again, title is health optimization for productivity and focus. So we're going to discuss five things, talk about sleep, diet, exercise, meditation and cold water exposure. And I'm just going to go ahead and skip straight if you are focused on one of these five things, sleep is like 99% everything else is like 1% but there's a caveat, because your diet, your exercise, will affect your quality of sleep. So let's talk a little bit about sleep first. So here's why sleep matters. Again, very, very simple explanation. So the human brain, in my brain, your brain, there are humans, and our brains broken into different parts. We have the lipid brain and then the reptilian brain. Let's think of these two kind of groups as one, as the kind of the thing that is like in the center of your brain. That's more of our primal brain. That's the thing we have in common with other animals, and that's where, like, all of our fear, panic, anxiety, like survival instincts, come in. That's the thing that keeps us alive, pretty much, right? So whenever you're going to sleep, that thing gets charged first, right? So here think of your brain just like an iPhone. And I don't know, but it's like at 20% and below your iPhone is basically, or your brain would be running purely based on these instincts, and only when you have a lot more charging and energy in your brain. Just that extra energy go to the thinking brain. So what I mean by that is, when you are low on sleep, you are basically only operating on your primal brain. Again, your brain only knows anxiety, only knows instant gratification, your primal brain just wants to eat sleep and appropriate, right? These are the things, watching more videos. But if you get adequate charging your thinking, charging a part of your brain which is responsible for plans, set goals, execute on tasks, prioritize all these things. So if you are not sleeping well on average, then by definition, are operating like more like a impulsive animal and less like a thinking human. And I know it sounds like a bizarre way, but this literally was actually happening so and try, if you were to go entirely without sleep, you're just gonna stop functioning, versus you could go weeks or months, or there was a study or something, I went like an entire year without eating, a very old way. And higher up on the ad or You welcome and congratulations. This is the very last video, this multi video, but now you should have been able to subtract, add and divide things in your life, systems in your life be twice productive. I'm hoping this subtract module alone was able to be very useful in that just deleting things that don't serve you, tweaking your environment, getting rid of notifications that should not be bothering you, just kind of being able to be more in control of your life. I really hope that you enjoyed that program. If you really, really found it valuable. No one talked about the next steps are. So what we went ahead and did in that program is fairly scratched the surface on systems. What I did is I gave you a system that I built myself. Basically I gave you a fish. Now, if you're interested in diving deeper and learning how to fish yourself, meaning learning how to build your own systems, that's what our follow up program is. It is basically designed to make you a productivity machine without having burnout, without having to lose sleep. And it goes into the four pillars, breaks down and find four different categories systems, which is basically how to learn systems and thinking systems. Whenever, if you achieve that, you need to first learn how to build cognition systems, mindset systems and awareness systems in your life so that you just become automatically productive person. I applied this my personal life until I was 27 years old, full time job. I run two businesses. I have future channels. I actually have a third one around making music, trying to be a DJ as well. And I spend plenty time with my family. I travel a lot. I do all these things. I think life should be fun. The goal, I think, in life, is to build systems such that you build cash flow systems, impact systems, things that just run on their own, with your own vision, so that you can buy your time do whatever you want. My face. Right after this video, I'm going to make some music, my music control over here, but that sounds like something that's interesting to you. I have a more in depth video explaining how you can become a systems thinker. It should be the resource below. Just go ahead and click on it, and I'll see you there. You